# Black-Friday-Sales-Analysis-using-Data-Mining-Techniques

Customer behavior analysis identifies behavior among group of customers to predict how customers behave under similar environment. 
We are going to study and observe this data and we are going to discover hidden pattern in this data that can tell us the story of the data. The best techniques that are suitable for our case here would be the Structured Data Classification technique and Demographics analysis. Demographics analysis is used to study characteristics such as gender, age, education, profession, occupation, location, and marital status. We use demographics because it is usually used to research a product or service and how well it is selling, who likes it and/or in what areas it is most popular. Data can be collected through methods such as sample surveys and questionnaires. There are few things that we can predict when it comes to consumers. But by using demographic data, businesses can understand why customers make choices, is it because of where they live, their age, gender? It may enable them to forecast products in the future and how customers will react to them. Demographic data can be used to customize products by finding out what is wanted by consumers and changing the existing product to fit the desired outcome. The whole idea of customizing products would be to save money and time while managing our inventory without creating dead-stock (unwanted stock). 
We are going to achieve market-leading predictive customer behavior analysis with the combination of the following capabilities:
1.	Segmenting customers into small groups and addressing individual customers based on actual behaviors instead of hard-coding any pre-conceived notions or assumptions of what makes customers like one another by tracking customers and how they move among different segments over time (i.e., dynamic segmentation), including customer lifecycle and context.
2.	Accurately determining behavior of customers using predictive customer behavior modeling techniques – instead of just using the past data.
3.	Knowing, based on objective metrics, exactly what marketing actions to do now, for each customer, to maximize the long-term value of every customer instead of trying to figure out what to do based on a dashboard or pile of reports.
Data Classification technique is selected here because we need to categorize the data into classes. The goal is to identify the category (or class) under which our data will fall. Decision Tree is the best suited Classification technique since Decision Tree produces a sequence of rules that can be used to classify a data. The advantage of Decision Tree is to understand and visualize. It can also handle both numerical and categorical data. A decision tree uses estimation and probabilities to calculate likely outcomes and helps to decide whether the net gain from a decision is worthwhile. A decision tree starts with the identification of alternative actions to carry out and helps to plan based on which one gives the more desirable outcome. There is not much data preparation required. The only challenge it could possess is that a small variation in data may result in completely different tree being generated. Hence, we need to be extremely careful in this technique.
Thus, using these data mining technique, we can uncover hidden patterns in the data which in turn will help us increase customer satisfaction and, hence increasing our business.
